The job of the function d,
which you learned about in the last video,
is to input two faces and tell you how
similar or how different they are.
A good way to do this is
to use a Siamese network.
Let's take a look.
You're used to seeing pictures of
confidence like these where you input
an image, let's say x1.
And through a sequence of
convolutional and pulling and
fully connected layers,
end up with a feature vector like that.
And sometimes this is fed to a softmax
unit to make a classification.
We're not going to use that in this video.
Instead, we're going to focus
on this vector of let's say 128
numbers computed by some fully connected
layer that is deeper in the network.
And I'm going to give this
list of 128 numbers a name.
I'm going to call this f of x1,
and you should think of f of x1 as
an encoding of the input image x1.
So it's taken the input image,
here this picture of Kian,
and is re-representing it
as a vector of 128 numbers.
The way you can build a face recognition
system is then that if you want to compare
two pictures, let's say this first
picture with this second picture here.
What you can do is feed this second
picture to the same neural network with
the same parameters and
get a different vector of 128 numbers,
which encodes this second picture.
So I'm going to call this second picture.
So I'm going to call this encoding
of this second picture f of x2, and
here I'm using x1 and
x2 just to denote two input images.
They don't necessarily
have to be the first and
second examples in your training sets.
It can be any two pictures.
Finally, if you believe that these
encodings are a good representation
of these two images,
what you can do is then define the image
d of distance between x1 and
x2 as the norm of the difference
between the encodings of these two images.
So this idea of running two identical,
convolutional neural networks on two
different inputs and then comparing them,
sometimes that's called a Siamese
neural network architecture.
And a lot of the ideas I'm
presenting here came from
this paper due to Yaniv Taigman,
Ming Yang, Marc'Aurelio Ranzato, and
Lior Wolf in the research system
that they developed called DeepFace.
And many of the ideas I'm presenting here
came from a paper due to Yaniv Taigman,
Ming Yang, Marc'Aurelio Ranzato, and
Lior Wolf in a system that they
developed called DeepFace.
So how do you train this
Siamese neural network?
Remember that these two neural
networks have the same parameters.
So what you want to do is really
train the neural network so
that the encoding that it
computes results in a function d
that tells you when two pictures
are of the same person.
So more formally, the parameters of the
neural network define an encoding f of xi.
So given any input image xi,
the neural network outputs this
128 dimensional encoding f of xi.
So more formally,
what you want to do is learn parameters so
that if two pictures, xi and
xj, are of the same person,
then you want that distance between
their encodings to be small.
And in the previous slide,
l was using x1 and x2, but
it's really any pair xi and
xj from your training set.
And in contrast, if xi and
xj are of different persons,
then you want that distance between
their encodings to be large.
So as you vary the parameters in all
of these layers of the neural network,
you end up with different encodings.
And what you can do is
use back propagation and
vary all those parameters in order to
make sure these conditions are satisfied.
So you've learned about the Siamese
network architecture and
have a sense of what you want
the neural network to output for
you in terms of what would
make a good encoding.
But how do you actually
define an objective function
to make a neural network learn to
do what we just discussed here?
Let's see how you can do that in the next
video using the triplet loss function.